27/11/2024

css:- it is use to design webapp and to make it responsive.
    - css stands for cascading style sheet
    - latest version of css in css-3

what are the types and how they are used?

1, inline css: inside a stating tag we use style attribute and in that we property ansd value
2, internal css: in html file we use style tag and in that we select element apply csss property.\
    syntax: selector{
        property:value;
        property:value;
        property:value;
    }
3, external css: in this we create a seprate css file and import that css in html file head part.
syntax: selector{
    property:value;
    property:value;
    property:value;
    }

selector in css : selecting an element 

1, element or tag name selector: in this we use element or tag name to apply css property
2, group selector: in this we make group selector to apply css property.
3, id selector (#): if you have to apply css property to an singlr element in that cse we use it.
4, class selector: when you have to apply bunch of css property css property to specific element in that case we use it.
5, universal selector (*): when we have to apply all css property to all element available in html page.


border: a line drown around an element

box model: it contain four point

1, content : it can be four point
2, padding : it is use to clear area between content and element border.
3, broder: a line down around a element.
4, margin : it is clear area outside element border.


visiblity: hidden; positon still remains
display : none, position will be occupied

position: it is use to move element after applying left, right, top and bottom property value.
            - by default every element has position: static;
            1, position: static;(default)
            2, position: relative; element will move from left, right, top and bottom side.
            3, position: absolute; when we want to move child elment according to its parrent element.
            4, position: fixed; when we have to fixed om screen window.
            5, position: sticky when we have to stick element on screen window


media query: it is use to appply different style rule to an element according to different screen width;

syntax: @media screen and (screen - width){
    css code
}
device screen-width >=1200px xl screen
device screen-width >992px lg screen
device screen-width >=768px md screen
device screen-width >=576px sm screen
device screen-width <=576px xsm screen


screen weidth
1, max-width : css property will applicable from its minimum width to its max-width not above to it.
2, min- width: css property will be applicable from its minimum width to above width 
